>> Steve Kinney: All right, so
we're gonna run npm start to look at
our list of all of our fun examples today.
The first one we gonna look at is this one
called cookie jar, and we'll open it up.
And for starters, it is a relatively
simple app that we are going to exploit.
So this is an Express
app running on Node.js.
We'll use a SQLite database that's
kind of like the standard kit for us,
because like, yes,
the principles apply regardless.
And we will try for the most part we
use one or two libraries, but for
the most part, we'll keep things to
the stuff that is generally applicable to
whatever, whether using like Next or
Sveltkit or Rails or
some Java monstrosity that has existed
long before you work there, like whatever.
We'll kind of play around that as well.
I just kind of made this little
abstraction here, honestly, so that we
could keep a lot of the boilerplate code
that wasn't important out of the way.
You can go ahead and
take a look at if you want.
It's just, configuring the ability
to parse request bodies,
so on and so forth, and
some various settings as well.
Cool and sue.
Let's go back over to where
I was in a cookie jar,
we've got this index.js,
which is our server at this point.
Out of the box, Express does not come
with any support for cookies, so
we'll talk about how to pull that in.
For future ones, I just had it already
set up, so I overrided it with being
I don't really want cookies right now,
and then we'll add them in ourselves.
That way, we can tweak them and
see them a little bit, and
we can see some of the changes
that we're gonna do.
So this will be done for
us kinda going forward, but just so
it doesn't look like magic to you,
let's try this out real quick.
So there is this well named
library called cookie parser.
It does what you think it does.
It takes that request header that is It's
got the cookie that we saw before, and
it has a string with all those semicolons.
And you know what it does?
It grabs that header off
the request object, and
then it separates out all of the different
keys and values by the semicolons so
that you're not doing string
manipulation by hand.
Which kind of hits one of the core tenets
of what we're gonna talk about today,
which is, don't write your own database,
don't roll your crypto, and
honestly, like, in terms of when
it comes down to a sanitizer or
anything like that, grab a library, right?
Look at it, because there are some
that are known deprecated, right,
especially when we see, Csurf, right?
There is an express module that was built
into Express that has been deprecated cuz
it was actually riddled
with security holes.
So do your research, but
maybe don't roll it yourself so
you're implementing your
own new security holes.
There's something about having eyes
across the industry on something.
Cool, and so we'll get that in place,
and we're just gonna pop in that middle
where we'll say app.use and
we'll bring in this cookie parser and so
if there were no cookies at all,
we got that cookies are disabled.
This app should and does restart
whenever we change the server.
So we don't have to kill
the server every time as well.
Again, these are the things I didn't
wanna do over and over again.
So now if we refresh it, we actually get
the real page, which is this login screen.
Now, this is intentionally at first
not a particularly secure app, but
if we look in our database file,
we've got just some users that are already
loaded into the database, right?
And so,
we've got our good friend bobbytables.
We will look at XKCD a cartoon later if
you have not seen it, cuz it's worth it.
And you're actually legally required,
if you do any like course on web security,
to reference that cartoon,
which I'll show you,
but you're legally required to references.
Otherwise you actually can't like
brand the courses web security.
So, great.
And so we got bobbytables here with
some of my favorite CSS colors as their
insecure passwords.
So let's go ahead and we'll try that out.
And we'll say we got bobbytables,
papaya whip.
Now you can argue, if he was live coding,
why didn't he pick
passwords he could spell?
That's a great question,
I'm glad you asked it.
And so we've got this little application
that seems like a precarious button.
Before we hit that button,
let's go ahead and
look at some of those
other tools I saw you.
That's called like,
building intrigue, by the way.
All right, so we've got this application.
And we don't wanna throttle.
We wanna go to this application here and
can see that I've logged in and
I am bobbytables, right?
But this is already bad.
Does anyone know what crucial
mistake I have already made here?
We've stored who we are in plain text.
And anyone go ahead and
decide, you know what?
I am going to be someone else.
And now when the browser goes,
it sends that request.
We look for that username directly, it
turns out now if they get something wrong,
they're not in the database and this app
does not have great error handling it.
But this is already like, again, yes,
an obvious mistake, but also the theme of,
you can obfuscate this, you can encrypt
it, you can do all sorts of stuff.
But if someone still has various levels
of sophistication for getting it,
you end up in the same, some version of
the course of our day will likely end
us in the same situation that
we are in the very beginning,
just with added layers of
sophistication as we go along, right?